---
layout: paper
title: "Control of the spinal cord by an analog VLSI device: on the road to development of a neuroprosthetic device for spinal cord injury patients"
image:
authors: Vogelstein J, Etienne-Cummings R, and Cohen AH.
year: 2006
ref: Vogelstein, Etienne-Cummings, and Cohen. 2006. Dynamical principles for neuroscience and intelligent biomimetic devices.
journal: Dynamical principles for neuroscience and intelligent biomimetic devices
pdf:
doi:
---

# Abstract
After spinal cord injury, the spinal cord below the injury remains capable of generating the full motor pattern and some control of sensory responses during locomotion. The main obstacle to locomotion in the absence of spinal regeneration is that there is no way to initiate activity or control it to make it adaptive with regard to the world. We know this to be true even in humans, in which it has now been shown that the spinal cord below a lesion site can be stimulated to produce alternating activity resembling locomotion (Dimitrijevic, cf. below).As one part of multipart system to restore locomotion, my colleagues and I have begun development of a silicon chip that can serve as a neuroprosthetic device for spinal cord injury patients. I will discuss 1) organization of the proposed system, 2) the preliminary work we have done to interface with the wetware, 3) the design of the hardware, and the software 4) and the principles of its operation. We have begun this process working with the relatively simple spinal cord of the primitive lamprey. Indeed, we have been working with the isolated spinal cord, to make the preparation even simpler. With this preparation, we have begun stimulation and analysis of activity from a fictively swimming spinal cord. Ongoing fictive swimming is initiated by bath application of D-glutamate, and recorded from the motor nerves with bipolar electrodes. We present perturbations as single pulses of stimulation to the hemicord of one end of the spinal cord segments. A special purpose stimulator delivers pulses with their timing and pulse characteristics generated by computer. The resulting outputs are analyzed with software developed …
